    Here is my DES-package.  I hope that the lack of documentation
#	
#	@(#)NOTE	1.1	91/11/18 16:23:57
#
    doesn't prevent posting this package in comp.sources.unix.  I have
    tried to implement library functions to match those of
    kerberos-des-package.  So kerberos manual pages give some hints what
    the library functions do.

    As I have said earlier, at least the library functions should be
    compiled with gcc, if one wants the best performance.  If it is needed
    I (or somebody else with gcc) can provide assembler- or .o- files for
    VAX- and SUN3- architecures.  These files should be checksummed of
    course to prevent any tampering. :-)

	    Antti Louko (alo@kampi.hut.fi)

Since that was written I have received an updated version that does include
a man page for the library routines.

I have added Makefiles for standard make (those in the original were
for GNU make only).  Note, these are very primitive Makefiles, if you
change anything, "make clean" and recompile from scratch.

I also added some "#ifdef BSD" lines to give this a reasonable chance of
compiling in a sys V environment (at the expense of giving up the -t (timing)
option to des-certify, and of leaving echo enabled when requesting passwords).
I am sure that if someone was to provide Sys V versions of the code that ends
up missing and mail it to Antti, that a patch will be forthcoming.

I suggest that if you're located in the US you don't attempt to modify
these routines, their purity may be lost if tainted by contributions
from such a restrictive country.

Notes: you need "getopt(3)" for the programs to link, if your system
lacks it, you can get it from a comp.sources.unix archive near you.

If you remove the .h files from lib that "make clean" tells you you
can remove, you will need Larry Wall's "perl" program to replace them.
Also available in a comp.sources.unix archive near you.

You should define BIG_ENDIAN if you are on a big endian host.  See
lib/des-private.h (I added the definitions for sparc and interdata,
no guarantees that the routines work on those hosts).

There are 2 files in the 'prog' directory that I uuencoded (now F1.uu
and F2.uu), I have no idea what they are useful for, if anything, however
should you need them, they will need to be uudecoded (to give F1 and F2).

